add a blog to introduce about kubeadm v1beta4 (#47248)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2024-09-20-kubeadm-v1beta4.md

Author: Miss that. Fixed.

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes v.31: kubeadm v1beta4'
date: 2024-09-20
slug: kubernetes-1-31-kubeadm-v1beta4
author: >
   Paco Xu (DaoCloud),
---

> [`kubeadm`](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/) Configuration([v1beta4](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/config-api/kubeadm-config.v1beta4/)) is released with Kubernetes v1.31.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`kubeadm`](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/) Configuration([v1beta4](/docs/reference/config-api/kubeadm-config.v1beta4/)) is released with Kubernetes v1.31.
```

> The [`kubeadm`](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/) configuration
> ([v1beta4](/docs/reference/config-api/kubeadm-config.v1beta4/))
> is released with Kubernetes v1.31. v1beta3 is still supported,
> but is marked as deprecated. It will be removed after a minimum
> of 3 Kubernetes releases.

Reviewer 2: How about this?
```suggestion
As part of the Kubernetes v1.31 release, [`kubeadm`](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/) is
adopting a new ([v1beta4](/docs/reference/config-api/kubeadm-config.v1beta4/)) version of
its configuration file format. Configuration in the previous v1beta3 format is now formally
deprecated, which means it's supported but you should migrate to v1beta4 and stop using
the deprecated format.1
Support for v1beta3 configuration it will be removed after a minimum of 3 Kubernetes minor releases.
```

> [`kubeadm`](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/) Configuration([v1beta4](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/config-api/kubeadm-config.v1beta4/)) is released with Kubernetes v1.31.
> The configuration 
> v1beta3 is still supported, but v1beta3 will be deprecated and removed in future releases.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [`kubeadm`](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/) configuration
([v1beta4](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/config-api/kubeadm-config.v1beta4/))
is released with Kubernetes v1.31. While v1beta3 is still supported,
it will be deprecated and removed in future releases.
```

> This guide will walk you through key changes and update about the kubeadm v1beta4 configuration,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this article, I'll walk you through key changes; I'll explain about the kubeadm v1beta4 configuration format,
```

> This guide will walk you through key changes and update about kubeadm v1beta4 Configuration,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This guide will walk you through key changes and update about the kubeadm v1beta4 configuration,
```

and how to migrate from v1beta3 to v1beta4.

> Details about v1beta4 can be found in the

Reviewer 2: Try this:
```suggestion
You can read the reference for the v1beta4 configuration format:
```

> [API doc]((/docs/reference/config-api/kubeadm-config.v1beta4/)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[kubeadm Configuration (v1beta4)](/docs/reference/config-api/kubeadm-config.v1beta4/).
```

> The documentation is maintained in the
> [code](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/cmd/kubeadm/app/apis/kubeadm/v1beta4/doc.go)
> and generated for the kubernetes.io website.

Reviewer 2: I don't think readers will want to know this detail.
```suggestion
```

Author: OK to remove this. But for kube contributors, this is still a thing that they should know.

> The documentation is maintained in [code](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/cmd/kubeadm/app/apis/kubeadm/v1beta4/doc.go) and generated to the website kubernetes.io.

Reviewer 2: I actually suggested dropping the second sentence outright.

### A list of changes since v1beta3

This version improves on the [v1beta3](/docs/reference/config-api/kubeadm-config.v1beta3/)
format by fixing some minor issues and adding a few new fields.

To put it simply,

> - Two new API types: ResetConfiguration and UpgradeConfiguration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Two new configuration elements: ResetConfiguration and UpgradeConfiguration
```
This isn't an API really; it's not something that end users typically write programs against.
A more common IT jargon term for what `kubeadm.k8s.io/v1beta4` is: _configuration file format_.

- For InitConfiguration and JoinConfiguration, `dryRun` mode and `nodeRegistration.imagePullSerial` are supported

> - For ClusterConfiguration, we add field including `certificateValidityPeriod`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For ClusterConfiguration, there are new fields including `certificateValidityPeriod`,
```

> - Add a `Timeouts` structure for init, join, upgrade and reset.

Reviewer: Please always use the user-facing field names rather than the Go field names when possible. For example, say "imagePullSerial" instead of "ImagePullSerial".

Author: /cc @neolit123 
Do we want to change the style here? 

In https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/config-api/kubeadm-config.v1beta3/, the changes docs are using go fields like the release notes.

In https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/config-api/kubeadm-config.v1beta3/#resource-types and below, we use the user-facing field names.

Reviewer: For clarification's purpose. The config API reference is NOT generated directly from the k/k repository for two reasons:

- The package in k/k/cmd/kubeadm is not importable from an external project.
- The comments in the source code are not documenting fields in the way users see them.

What you are reading from k/website is generated from github.com/tengqm/kubeconfig repo, where I manually copied the kubeadm api repository and manually synchronize whatever changes made to k/k/cmd/kubeadm/api.

The "changes" doc are using Go fields because I failed to perform a line-by-line checking when that API was introduced.

Reviewer 4: > Please always use the user-facing field names rather than the Go field names when possible. For example, say "imagePullSerial" instead of "ImagePullSerial".

i don't mind this format of using the JSON tags. this is something the docs team has been recommending to us on the blog and web pages and i agree with it.

> Do we want to change the style here?

however for the style in the go.doc, that's also targeting developers, so i think field names also work.
we could make it simpler to use JSON field names everywhere. but that's like something we can do after 1.31 or another time.

Author: I add https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/47248/commits/41b8f0548c7822e1be2e2e1021221303a350dadc to make most places using user facing field names.

`caCertificateValidityPeriod`, `encryptionAlgorithm`, `dns.disabled` and `proxy.disabled`.
- Support `extraEnvs` for all control plan components
- `extraArgs` changed from a map to structured extra arguments for duplicates
- Add a `timeouts` structure for init, join, upgrade and reset.

> For details, you can see the official document below:

Reviewer 5: can you rather add the reference on `official document` as user will find it convinient

Author: The same link with v1beta4 configurations.

- Support custom environment variables in control plane components under `ClusterConfiguration`.
Use `apiServer.extraEnvs`, `controllerManager.extraEnvs`, `scheduler.extraEnvs`, `etcd.local.extraEnvs`.
- The ResetConfiguration API type is now supported in v1beta4. Users are able to reset a node by passing

> a `--config` file to "kubeadm reset".

Reviewer 2: (nit)
```suggestion
a `--config` file to `kubeadm reset`.
```

> a --config file to "kubeadm reset".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a `--config` file to "kubeadm reset".
```

> - `dry-run` mode in is now configurable in InitConfiguration and JoinConfiguration.

Reviewer: Please make sure you are spelling "dry-run" in the right format.

- Add `ClusterConfiguration.DNS.Disabled` and `ClusterConfiguration.Proxy.Disabled` that can be used to disable
the CoreDNS and kube-proxy addons during cluster initialization. Skipping the related addons phases,
during cluster creation will set the same fields to `false`.

> - Add the `NodeRegistration.ImagePullSerial` field in 'InitConfiguration` and `JoinConfiguration`, which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add the `NodeRegistration.ImagePullSerial` field in `InitConfiguration` and `JoinConfiguration`, which
```

> - Add `ClusterConfiguration.encryptionAlgorithm` that can be used to set the asymmetric encryption algorithm
> used for this cluster's keys and certificates. Can be one of "RSA-2048" (default), "RSA-3072", "RSA-4096" or "ECDSA-P256".
> - Add `ClusterConfiguration.dns.disabled` and `ClusterConfiguration.proxy.disabled` that can be used to disable
> the CoreDNS and kube-proxy addons during cluster initialization. Skipping the related addons phases,
> during cluster creation will set the same fields to `true`.
> - Add the `nodeRegistration.imagePullSerial` field in `InitConfiguration` and `JoinConfiguration`, which
> can be used to control if kubeadm pulls images serially or in parallel.
> - The UpgradeConfiguration kubeadm API is now supported in v1beta4 when passing `--config` to "kubeadm upgrade" subcommands.
> For upgrade subcommands, the usage of component configuration for kubelet and kube-proxy, as well as InitConfiguration and
> ClusterConfiguration, is deprecated and will be ignored when passing `--config`.
> - Add a `timeouts` structure to `InitConfiguration`, `JoinConfiguration`, `ResetConfiguration` and `UpgradeConfiguration`
> that can be used to configure various timeouts. The `ClusterConfiguration.timeoutForControlPlane` field is replaced
> by `timeouts.controlPlaneComponentHealthCheck`. The `JoinConfiguration.discovery.timeout` is replaced by
> `timeouts.discovery`.
> - Add a `certificateValidityPeriod` and `caCertificateValidityPeriod` fields to `ClusterConfiguration`. These fields
> can be used to control the validity period of certificates generated by kubeadm during sub-commands such as `init`,
> `join`, `upgrade` and `certs`. Default values continue to be 1 year for non-CA certificates and 10 years for CA
> certificates. Only non-CA certificates continue to be renewable by `kubeadm certs renew`.

Reviewer 2: (nits)
```suggestion
- Added `ClusterConfiguration.encryptionAlgorithm` that can be used to set the asymmetric encryption
 algorithm used for this cluster's keys and certificates. Can be one of "RSA-2048" (default), "RSA-3072",
  "RSA-4096" or "ECDSA-P256".
- Added `ClusterConfiguration.dns.disabled` and `ClusterConfiguration.proxy.disabled` that can be used
  to disable the CoreDNS and kube-proxy addons during cluster initialization.
  Skipping the related addons phases, during cluster creation will set the same fields to `true`.
- Added the `nodeRegistration.imagePullSerial` field in `InitConfiguration` and `JoinConfiguration`,
  which can be used to control if kubeadm pulls images serially or in parallel.
- The UpgradeConfiguration kubeadm API is now supported in v1beta4 when passing `--config` to 
  `kubeadm upgrade` subcommands.
  For upgrade subcommands, the usage of component configuration for kubelet and kube-proxy, as well as
  InitConfiguration and ClusterConfiguration, is now deprecated and will be ignored when passing `--config`.
- Added a `timeouts` structure to `InitConfiguration`, `JoinConfiguration`, `ResetConfiguration` and
  `UpgradeConfiguration` that can be used to configure various timeouts.
  TheClusterConfiguration.timeoutForControlPlane` field is replaced by `timeouts.controlPlaneComponentHealthCheck`.
  The `JoinConfiguration.discovery.timeout` is replaced by `timeouts.discovery`.
- Added a `certificateValidityPeriod` and `caCertificateValidityPeriod` fields to `ClusterConfiguration`.
  These fields can be used to control the validity period of certificates generated by kubeadm during
  sub-commands such as `init`, `join`, `upgrade` and `certs`.
  Default values continue to be 1 year for non-CA certificates and 10 years for CA certificates. 
  Only non-CA certificates continue to be renewable by `kubeadm certs renew`.
```

> certificates. Only non-CA certificates continue to be renewable by `kubeadm certs renew`.

Reviewer 2: That last sentence confuses me. Which of these do we mean:
- there is no change to which certificates you can renew using `kubeadm certs renew`; as in previous minor releases, only leaf certificates can be renewed.
- changed the behavior of `kubeadm certs renew`. In kubeadm v1.31, you can only renew leaf certificates; if you need to renew or replace any CA certificate (either the trust anchor or an intermediate certificate), you must now find an alternative mechanism.

Let's help readers by rewording, so that only one meaning makes sense.

Author: The first one.

No behavior change here.

These changes simplify the configuration of tools that use kubeadm
and improve the extensibility of kubeadm itself.

### How to migrate v1beta3 configuration to v1beta4?

If your configuration is not using the latest version, it is recommended that you migrate using
the [kubeadm config migrate](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-config/#cmd-config-migrate) command.

> This command reads an older version of the kubeadm configuration API types from a file,
> and writes a newer version of the configuration objects into a new file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This command reads an existing configuration file that uses the old format, and writes a new
file that uses the current format.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

#### Example {#example-kubeadm-config-migrate}

```

Using kubeadm v1.31, run `kubeadm config migrate --old-config old-v1beta3.yaml --new-config new-v1beta4.yaml`

## How do I get involved?

Huge thanks to all the contributors who helped with the design, implementation,
and review of this feature:

- Lubomir I. Ivanov ([neolit123](https://github.com/neolit123))
- Dave Chen([chendave](https://github.com/chendave))
- Paco Xu ([pacoxu](https://github.com/pacoxu))
- Sata Qiu([sataqiu](https://github.com/sataqiu))
- Baofa Fan([carlory](https://github.com/carlory))
- Calvin Chen([calvin0327](https://github.com/calvin0327))
- Ruquan Zhao([ruquanzhao](https://github.com/ruquanzhao))

For those interested in getting involved in future discussions on kubeadm configuration,
you can reach out kubeadm or [SIG-cluster-lifecycle](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-cluster-lifecycle/README.md) by several means:

> - v1beta4 related items are tracked in https://github.com/kubernetes/kubeadm/issues/2890.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- v1beta4 related items are tracked in [kubeadm issue #2890](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubeadm/issues/2890).
```

---
layout: blog

> title: 'Kubernetes v.31: kubeadm v1beta4'

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
title: 'Kubernetes v1.31: kubeadm v1beta4'
```

> date: 2024-09-20

Reviewer 4: is 20th of September the release date for 1.31?
https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/tree/master/releases/release-1.31
says 13th of August as release date.

Author: The date may need to be confirmed by release team.  I will send to the slack channel later.

Reviewer 6: @pacoxu how about August 23rd? The release is set to be out aug 13th and we have several blogs in our [schedule](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/projects/183/views/6) already.

Author: > @pacoxu how about August 23rd? The release is set to be out aug 13th and we have several blogs in our [schedule](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/projects/183/views/6) already.

Thanks. Updated.

slug: kubernetes-1-31-kubeadm-v1beta4
author: >
   Paco Xu (DaoCloud),
---

The [`kubeadm`](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/) configuration
([v1beta4](/docs/reference/config-api/kubeadm-config.v1beta4/))
is released with Kubernetes v1.31. While v1beta3 is still supported,

> it will be deprecated and removed in future releases.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
but is marked as deprecated. It will be removed after a minimum
of 3 Kubernetes releases.
```

let's be very clear about this point.

This guide will walk you through key changes and update about the kubeadm v1beta4 configuration,
and how to migrate from v1beta3 to v1beta4.

Details about v1beta4 can be found in the
[API doc]((/docs/reference/config-api/kubeadm-config.v1beta4/)).
The documentation is maintained in the
[code](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/cmd/kubeadm/app/apis/kubeadm/v1beta4/doc.go)

> and generated to the kubernetes.io website.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
and generated for the kubernetes.io website.
```

to->for?

### A list of changes since v1beta3

This version improves on the [v1beta3](/docs/reference/config-api/kubeadm-config.v1beta3/)

>  format by fixing some minor issues and adding a few new fields.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
format by fixing some minor issues and adding a few new fields.
```

To put it simply,

> - Two new API type: ResetConfiguration and UpgradeConfiguration

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Two new API types: ResetConfiguration and UpgradeConfiguration
```

- For InitConfiguration and JoinConfiguration, `dryRun` mode and `NodeRegistration.ImagePullSerial` are supported

> - For ClusterConfiguration, we add field including `CertificateValidityPeriod`, `CACertificateValidityPeriod`, `EncryptionAlgorithm`, `DNS.Disabled` and `Proxy.Disabled`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- For ClusterConfiguration, we add field including `CertificateValidityPeriod`,
`CACertificateValidityPeriod`, `EncryptionAlgorithm`, `DNS.Disabled` and `Proxy.Disabled`.
```

`join`, `upgrade` and `certs`. Default values continue to be 1 year for non-CA certificates and 10 years for CA
certificates. Only non-CA certificates continue to be renewable by `kubeadm certs renew`.

The aim of those changes can be summarized as making tools that use kubeadm easier to configure
and make kubeadm easier to extend.

### How to migrate v1beta3 configuration to v1beta4?

If your configuration is not using the latest version it is **recommended** that you migrate using
the [kubeadm config migrate](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-config/#cmd-config-migrate) command.

Read an older version of the kubeadm configuration API types from a file, and output the similar config object for the newer version

Using kubeadm v1.31, run `kubeadm config migrate --old-config old-v1beta3.yaml --new-config new-v1beta4.yaml`

#### Migration from old kubeadm config versions

- kubeadm v1.15.x and newer can be used to migrate from v1beta1 to v1beta2.
- kubeadm v1.22.x and newer no longer support v1beta1 and older APIs, but can be used to migrate v1beta2 to v1beta3.
- kubeadm v1.27.x and newer no longer support v1beta2 and older APIs.

> - kubeadm v1.31.x and newer can be used to migrate from v1beta3 to v1beta4.

Reviewer 4: we can remove this old info, from this blog i think

### A list of changes since v1beta3

This version improves on the [v1beta3](/docs/reference/config-api/kubeadm-config.v1beta3/)
format by fixing some minor issues and adding a few new fields.

To put it simply,

- Two new API types: ResetConfiguration and UpgradeConfiguration
- For InitConfiguration and JoinConfiguration, `dryRun` mode and `nodeRegistration.imagePullSerial` are supported
- For ClusterConfiguration, we add field including `certificateValidityPeriod`,
`caCertificateValidityPeriod`, `encryptionAlgorithm`, `dns.disabled` and `proxy.disabled`.
- Support `extraEnvs` for all control plan components
- `extraArgs` changed from a map to structured extra arguments for duplicates
- Add a `timeouts` structure for init, join, upgrade and reset.

For details, you can see the official document below:

- Support custom environment variables in control plane components under `ClusterConfiguration`.
Use `apiServer.extraEnvs`, `controllerManager.extraEnvs`, `scheduler.extraEnvs`, `etcd.local.extraEnvs`.
- The ResetConfiguration API type is now supported in v1beta4. Users are able to reset a node by passing
a `--config` file to "kubeadm reset".

> - `dryRun` mode in is now configurable in InitConfiguration and JoinConfiguration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `dryRun` mode is now configurable in InitConfiguration and JoinConfiguration.
```

- Replace the existing string/string extra argument maps with structured extra arguments that support duplicates.

> The change applies to `ClusterConfiguration` - `apiServer.extraArgs`, `controllerManager.extraArgs`,
> `scheduler.extraArgs`, `etcd.local.extraArgs`. Also to `nodeRegistrationOptions.kubeletExtraArgs`.

Reviewer: Indent the followup lines in these items would help improve readability and maintainability. That is:

```suggestion
  The change applies to `ClusterConfiguration` - `apiServer.extraArgs`, `controllerManager.extraArgs`,
  `scheduler.extraArgs`, `etcd.local.extraArgs`. Also to `nodeRegistrationOptions.kubeletExtraArgs`.
```

- Add `ClusterConfiguration.encryptionAlgorithm` that can be used to set the asymmetric encryption algorithm
used for this cluster's keys and certificates. Can be one of "RSA-2048" (default), "RSA-3072", "RSA-4096" or "ECDSA-P256".
- Add `ClusterConfiguration.dns.disabled` and `ClusterConfiguration.proxy.disabled` that can be used to disable
the CoreDNS and kube-proxy addons during cluster initialization. Skipping the related addons phases,

> during cluster creation will set the same fields to `false`.

Reviewer: > Skipping the related addons phases, during cluster creation will set the same fields to `false`.

Please recheck. Skipping these addons -> these fields are set to `true`, correct?

Author: Nice catch.

- Add the `nodeRegistration.imagePullSerial` field in `InitConfiguration` and `JoinConfiguration`, which
can be used to control if kubeadm pulls images serially or in parallel.

> - The UpgradeConfiguration kubeadm API is now supported in v1beta4 when passing --config to "kubeadm upgrade" subcommands.

Reviewer: Please use consistent styles when talking about the `InitConfiguration`, `JoinConfiguration`, `UpgradeConfiguration` ... types.
You add the backticks and you can ignore them, but don't mix the two styles.

Author: For types, probably we can use UpgradeConfiguration directly?

Reviewer: What I'd suggest is that we treat the top-level types (those directly exposed from the package) as a pseudo-resource. We don't apply code style on them.
For fields, values, commands, arguments, we use code style.

Usage of component configuration for kubelet and kube-proxy, InitConfiguration and ClusterConfiguration is deprecated

> and will be ignored when passing `--config` to upgrade subcommands.

Reviewer: This sentence is a little bit misleading. It reads like all component configuration are deprecated AND are ignored for upgrade commands.

Author: Try to make it clear
```
For upgrade subcommands, the usage of component configuration for kubelet and kube-proxy, as well as InitConfiguration and
ClusterConfiguration, is deprecated and will be ignored when passing `--config`.
```

Reviewer: Okay, this revision is much better.

- Add a `timeouts` structure to `InitConfiguration`, `JoinConfiguration`, `ResetConfiguration` and `UpgradeConfiguration`
that can be used to configure various timeouts. The `ClusterConfiguration.timeoutForControlPlane` field is replaced
by `timeouts.controlPlaneComponentHealthCheck`. The `JoinConfiguration.discovery.timeout` is replaced by
`timeouts.discovery`.
- Add a `certificateValidityPeriod` and `caCertificateValidityPeriod` fields to `ClusterConfiguration`. These fields
can be used to control the validity period of certificates generated by kubeadm during sub-commands such as `init`,
`join`, `upgrade` and `certs`. Default values continue to be 1 year for non-CA certificates and 10 years for CA
certificates. Only non-CA certificates continue to be renewable by `kubeadm certs renew`.

> The aim of those changes can be summarized as making tools that use kubeadm easier to configure
> and make kubeadm easier to extend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These changes simplify the configuration of tools that use kubeadm 
and improve the extensibility of kubeadm itself.
```

### How to migrate v1beta3 configuration to v1beta4?

> If your configuration is not using the latest version it is **recommended** that you migrate using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your configuration is not using the latest version, it is recommended that you migrate using
```

the [kubeadm config migrate](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-config/#cmd-config-migrate) command.

> 
> Read an older version of the kubeadm configuration API types from a file, and output the similar config object for the newer version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command reads an older version of the kubeadm configuration API types from a file,
and writes a newer version of the configuration objects into a new file.
```

Using kubeadm v1.31, run `kubeadm config migrate --old-config old-v1beta3.yaml --new-config new-v1beta4.yaml`

## How do I get involved?

> Huge thank you to all the contributors who helped with the design, implementation,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Huge thanks to all the contributors who helped with the design, implementation,
```
